---
title: Medic
---

# Basic Responsibilities

- Reviving downed team mates
- Healing injured team mates

## Reviving and Healing Team Mates

Here are the basic mechanics for the brand new. To revive a person that is down
you will bring your bandage up by pressing 5. If you get a medkit instead, press
5 again and that will swap you back to your bandages. A person that is
incapacitated but not dead yet will have a red blood drop surrounded by a red
circle with a mixture of a dotted and undotted circumference. The undotted
portion indicates how much time they have left approximately with a full circle
indicating around 240-260 seconds. Take note of this for prioritizing among
groups of downed team mates. You will take your bandage and hold left click on
someone until the bandage is out of the package. You can move a little bit away,
but if you go too far the process will stop. Sometimes the bandage will not get
applied, so you need to keep trying until the animation for tearing the bandage
out starts. Sometimes you need to move around closer, further, or change your
angle to get the desired person bandaged. Medics are not the only people who can
use bandages, but the time it takes for them to revive is much shorter and they
have far more bandages.

Healing isn't much different from bandaging. You bring out the medkit and left
click to apply it to other players. If the player is bleeding or incapacitated,
you will need to bandage them first. When the player is up and injured you will
see a circle with a medical symbol if they are stable and blood drop to indicate
they are bleeding. Their amount of health left will be indicated by the undotted
circumference. A less precise indicator is the color of the circle and symbol
with green indicating nearly full health, yellow about half way and orange to
red indicating less than half or a quarter.

Those are the basic mechanics.

## Best Practices

### Vulnerable State

There is a period of time after a revive where a player will die if they are
incapacitated before the time is up. The default is 60 seconds and this will
decrease if the player is partially healed. Because of this it is best to drag
players to safety if you can first. Safety is a position that is highly unlikely
to take gun fire in the form of cover or having lots of friendlies around and
very few enemies. If a building is nearby, drag them inside or around a corner
so they can't be struck by gun fire. On the other hand if there hasn't been gun
fire for a minute and friendlies are walking freely, just start picking
people up out in the open as that will save time.

To drag you will press the `f` key while crouched on the players neck or ankles.
Figuring out where to look while doing this is the hardest part but give it a
try where you can. With practice you will be able to do this easily in the midst
of a fire fight with few problems aside from bullets.

### Priorities

If you do not need to get anyone else up specifically try to prioritize healing
by who has the least amount of time left. Priorities will change with the
situation you are in. If there is enemy armor around, you need to get your LATs
and HATs up first. Your squad needs a rally put down? Get the squad lead up first.
Need ammunition? Prioritize a rifleman who has ammo, ask first. How can you tell
which kit is which when they are lying on the ground? You can use your map and
mouse over them to see who is who. Another approach is to learn what equipment
will show on the bodies of different kits and this works better in a pinch. You
can also just ask, and the people who are down can help direct you where you need
to go.

One kit you should try to prioritize picking up is other medics. You can pick
people up faster this way as there are 2 or more of you working on reviving
compared to just you. This is crucial when you have a squad sized element or more
down in an area.

Pertaining to priorities is should you heal completely first before moving to
the next person or just get people up? This depends on the situation. Invasion
will require keeping ticket losses to a minimum and you should get people out of
their vulnerable state before sending them back into a fight. You may also be
facing another squad coming in the next 30 seconds and one guy with a rifle
won't be enough but you can spare the tickets. Pick people up quickly and heal
as you can in this situation. You should heal everyone at least a little bit so
they can regenerate stamina. Without stamina weapon accuracy will be poor. It
doesn't take much just a slight heal will give stamina regeneration back.

### Bandage Management

Because you can be incapacitated like everyone else, you want your team mates to
have bandages for you when this happens. That means if they are bleeding, you
stabilize them. If there are team mates down, you try to revive them instead of
non medics. This will cause you to run out of bandages faster than if you just
focused on reviving, but if you go down your team mates can at least pick you
up. If they have to bandage their own wounds they now have only 1 bandage to
revive with. Given enough time away from an ammo crate they may not have a
bandage any more. Medics on the other hand have 9 bandages with full supply.

Being more active with bandages will mean you need to stay on top of keeping
yourself stocked. If you are near supply crates, that means making a trip back
to the crate when needed. Friendly vehicles are also a great source. And any
time you see a rifleman if you are not fully stocked ask for ammo. If need be
talk the rifleman through how to give it to you as new players gravitate toward
this role.
